---
layout: page
title: Introduction to Functional Programming
---
## What is Functional Programming?

Functional programming has many characteristics but for these tutorials you
only need to keep two things in mind: _functions_ and _data_. By _data_ we
mean _information_ and you can think of _functions_ as _actions_ that can
be performed on specific pieces of information. Seeing the world through
these two concepts will help you see problems in a different light and often
come up with simple solutions to them.

For example if you wanted to make sushi you would need two things: fish
(_data_) and the action (_function_) that contains all the necessary steps
that will transform that piece of fish into sushi:

```elixir
make_sushi(üêü) -> üç£
```

## Why Functional?

Functional programming is a paradigm-_a different way of thinking_-which
forces you to write software under certain constraints. Some of these
constraints might seem too rigid at first but following those constraints
in the long term can help you write code that is easier to work with.
Easier in this case means easier to verify whether it's correct or not and
easier to debug. It's a paradigm that is growing in popularity and more
companies are adopting it. It's a tool that can certainly help you start a
career or enhance your existing one.

## Why Elixir?

Elixir is a language that is created on top of the Erlang virtual machine.
This is a fancy way of saying it uses the Erlang programming language
underneath.
[Erlang](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erlang_(programming_language)) was
created to solve a very difficult problem-that of telecommunications. As
such it has some characteristics that makes it a very good language for
building reliable and robust systems. Elixir builds upon this solid
foundation whilst adding its own characteristics alongside a Ruby-like
syntax with which many people are familiar with.

Head over to the next lesson where we will install Elixir and begin our journey!

**Next Step**: [Installing Elixir](../lesson1/tutorial.html)

This ends our **Introduction to Functional Programming & Elixir** tutorial.
Is there something you don't understand? Try and go through the provided
resources with your coach. If you have any feedback, or can think of ways
to improve this tutorial [send us an email](mailto:feedback@codebar.io) and
let us know.
